we start with an escalation in Israel's
campaign to destroy Hamas in the Gaza
Strip Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says that Israeli troops are
now operating inside Gaza City he also
says there will be no fuel deliveries
and no ceasefire until Hamas releases
the more than 200 hostages that it
captured today one month ago on October
7th fighting in the south is advancing
with a forest that Hamas hasn't known
Kaza city is
encircled we are operating in it and
deepening the pressure on Hamas every
hour every
day so far we have killed thousands of
terrorists above the ground and under
the
ground there will be no entry of fuel no
entry of workers and there will be no
ceas fire without the release of our
hostages Netanyahu has also signaled
that Israel will manage security in Gaza
after it eliminates Hamas but that
difficult Urban combat lies
ahead after a month of constant
bombardment Israel's military says
ground troops are pushing into Gaza City
in the northern part of the strip and
taken over a Hamas compound as soldiers
prepare to attack Fighters hiding in
underground tunnels
for the first time Israel's prime
minister has also provided insight into
his government's future plans for the
territory during a US television
interview President Biden has said that
it would be a mistake for Israel to
occupy Gaza who should govern Gaza when
this is over I think Israel will
for an indefinite period will have the
overall uh security responsibility
because we've seen what happens when we
don't have it when we don't have that
security responsibility what we have is
the eruption of uh Hamas Terror on a
scale that we couldn't
imagine weeks of pounding air strikes
have reduced entire neighborhoods to
Rubble Israeli ground forces have
effectively cut the strip in half as
fighting intensifies in the north
Netanyahu says Israel is considering
tactical pauses to facilitate the entry
of humanitarian Aid and the exit of
hostages Israel has rebuffed mounting
International pressure for a ceasefire
now one of the functions of cordoning
off that the northern Gaza area into the
northern sector of operations is to seal
off Hamas leadership and of course
Personnel who are already there and kill
them or capture them I suppose in some
cases military analysts warn that the
weeks ahead we'll see grueling house to
house fighting in Gaza for this latest
phase Israel has put its Elite 36th
division to the
task but the 36th division has combat
power equivalent to the British army so
when you see those pictures of these all
inspiring shock and a barges not only
from Theon artillery that's what you're
seeing you're seeing the power of a
large modern well equipped Army and its
most powerful division about to go into
action Israel withdrew its troops and
settlers from Gaza in 2005 but kept
control over the territories airspace
and Coastline Netanyahu did not make
clear what security control of the strip
would look like us officials have
advised Israel not to reoccupy Gaza and
I'm not joined by Roy Krick he's a
director of the director of research at
midm that's the Israeli Institute for
regional foreign policies in Jerusalem
Ro what do you make of netanyahu's
remarks about taking responsibility for
the overall security of Gaza what does
that mean
well it means that he continues to
choose um his own longstanding strategy
of managing the conflict look we have
only re two realistic alternatives to
the question of who will control Gaza
either it would be an ongoing Israeli
occupation which includes the continued
existence of
Hamas it's an ongoing Warfare
it is a continue the managing the
conflict or there's another
alternative that a moderate Palestinian
entity that recognize Israel and provide
security peace and prosperity for both
Israel and Palestine citizens so we have
two Alternatives what Netanyahu suggests
is to choose to continue his prolonged
strategy of managing the conflict and if
you want to ask me why I can explain
why uh I have another question what
about what what about the Civil
governance of Gaza I mean Hamas has done
that to a degree uh can and will Israel
provide that
too well
no it doesn't want to do that it want to
control it or to try to depict or to
replicate what's happening in the West
Bank to Gaza uh but in the West Bank you
have an entity the Palestinian Authority
who uh cooperate with you uh and manage
the Civil um Civil Life of the citizens
in the West Bank you don't have that in
Gaza so or you continue
to fight Hamas who will continue to
manage the Civil uh aspects of of life
in Gaza this is what netan actually
proposed continue managing the conflict
or you choose the alternative and work
hard work hard to build an alternative
in Gaza a Palestinian one how credible
will that be well it will be a
Palestinian government put in place if
you will uh uh by Israel does it have
any credibility it's there's no
credibility of such meaning there's no
Palestinian entity who would enter Gaza
and take responsibility over what's
happening in Gaza um escorting by by the
IDF the only way an alternative to Kamas
the only way to eradicate Kamas is to
build a credible Palestinian Authority
there is by providing it with an asset
meaning with a state a Palestinian
recognized State and this is exactly why
Netanyahu wouldn't choose that because
if we want for example the Palestinian
Authority to take responsibility over
Gaza it would be ready to do that if it
comes with a state recognized State and
for that Israel should need to um
compromise in the West Bank it means at
the end that netanyahu's government
would fall because it comprom compris
out of the settlers movement and the
fundamentalist religious parts of Israel
so if he need to choose Netanyahu
between continueing managing managing
the conflict with the IDF in Gaza or
compromising the West Bank and choose a
two-state solution provide a Palestinian
state but losing his tenure then he
would choose himself
unfortunately Ro K there director of
research at midv the Israeli Institute
for regional foreign policies in
Jerusalem thank you very much for your
time thank
you well earlier I spoke with eron lman
he spent many years inside Israeli
intelligence he also served on Israel's
National Security Council under prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu I asked him
whether Israel's soldiers are now
fighting Hamas above ground or in the
terrorist tunnels
below well it's both um it's the bulk of
the Gaza area City area is now cut off
from all directions
progress is very slow
systematic and um designed basically to
find and destroy the tunnel entrances as
well as basically destroy Kamas
positions and Kamas forces and create
the conditions under which their command
structure will be destroyed um step by
step uh the IDF is were trying to fight
quite carefully
uh the uh there is a humanitarian
Corridor still open for the people in
the combat area to clear out in the
direction of the South but this is a um
the most complex form of warfare
imaginable in a in a densely populated
area and uh and uh therefore it's being
T done in a very I would say uh measured
pace mhm um and in with close
cooperation between the uh uh the
armored formations the Infantry Air
Force support artillery all the elements
being brought to bear uh in this uh in
this battle Mr Lemon let me um get if I
could your read on what has been said in
just the last 24 hours um the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying
that Israel will have overall security
responsibility in Gaza indefinitely but
we heard just this evening the defense
minister Galant saying that neither
Israel nor Hamas will govern Gaza after
the war is that a contradiction in your
opinion not necessarily when we speak
about security responsibility it means
that we are going to retain the right to
prevent the emergence of any threat from
Gaza uh for the indefinite future that
doesn't necessar
entail governance we have a reality now
where we act uh in for a similar purpose
in areas under Palestinian Authority
control in uh in the West Bank and and
uh uh we don't govern these areas but we
do operate there to to ensure that they
do not constitute a threat ultimately
the there certainly not in no intention
I believe in on the part of the Israeli
government to actually govern uh Gaza um
but there are going to have to be uh
security Arrangements put in and for the
time being it's indefinite in time
because we have not yet had anyone
coming up saying very clearly uh what is
the the the plan the Palestinian
Authority is uh simply incapable of
taking over it is too weak corrupt and
and has failed in governance even in the
areas under it's Direct Control so the
the the mission in Gaza is beyond their
capacity the United Nations has the
Russians and the Chinese uh we're not
going to go with a un Mission so we need
an alternative and it needs time and and
and effort to work out with our American
and and other friends how to go about it
in a way which would be useful for a
better future for the Palestinians in
Gaza and for ourselves we heard again
today from the defense minister
that um the there will be no
humanitarian pauses in this campaign
until all of the hostages have been
released I mean with that in mind the
idea of getting all of these hostages
brought home do that limit the scope of
action that the Israeli military has in
Gaza well uh right now the government is
operating on the uh opposite assumption
namely that the uh if we relent in terms
of our military pressure Hamas will
certainly play indefinitely for time and
we have seen them uh uh drag us for
years in negotiations over two
individuals who who they hold to the uh
demented person who crossed over to Gaza
and the bedwin boy and uh and the bodies
of two of our soldiers so we know their
tactics we have no uh doubt that if we
simply say okay now we settled now we
stopped the fighting and we settled to
negotiate it would be years before we
see the hostages released so the need
for the intense pressure both in terms
of military operations and in terms of
the uh um constraints obviously on
humanitarian a no Israel family
understands how it can be that a child
of three is held without access to the
red cross and Israel is providing
humanitarian corridors into Gaza we are
doing this uh uh basically out of
respect to the opinions of others
internationally but it is not the the
government it's the people of Israel who
are asking this question how can this
possibly be that they're holding babies
and children without any access to in
even to information and we are providing
humanitarian Aid yeah Mr let me ask you
one question before we run out of time
but we know that there have been members
of the the military who have admitted to
making mistakes or decisions that did
not work that may have led to security
breaches um on October 7th we have not
heard a Maya culpa coming from prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu tonight
there's a rally in Jerusalem people
calling for the prime minister to resign
should he say that he was part of the
security
weakness well I believe
that uh first of all
um he has already said that he would
also have to answer uh to what happened
I believe that uh if he fails to take
full
responsibility uh in person uh there is
bound to be a a commission of inquiry uh
at the what we call at the national
level not at the governmental level that
is to say an independent commission led
by Supreme Court Judge the way we've
seen these
uh option this option taken in 73 and
again in 82 and again after the second
Lebanon war and uh and um I think this
will also have a deep political impact
even people close to netan now concede
that we're going to have a complete
completely new political field while
once the war is over Mr eron lman with
the Jerusalem Institute for strategy and
security we appreciate you taking the
time to talk with us tonight and we
appreciate your valuable insights thank
you you're
welcome my next guest is Assaf oron he's
a former Brigadier General in the Israel
Defense Force from 2010 to 2015 he
served as head of strategic division in
the IDF General staff's planning
directorate and he's currently with the
think tank The Institute for National
Security studies he joins me tonight
from Tel Aviv General it's good to have
you with us the IDF has now divided the
Gaza Strip in two is the next step the
complete capture of Gaza
City I think uh what we uh need to
expect is the further uh
infighting uh inside Gaza which is the
center of gravity of the terrorist Hamas
Army and governance in Gaza so what what
we are seeing now is like closing in on
the city of Gaza and fighting against
the core of Hamas forces uh in that area
do you anticipate the IDF moving into
the southern part of
Gaza uh we need to uh see how the camp
campaign develops but this might well be
part of the future phases as our
leadership will assess the situation of
the enemy and the need to further
degrade and defeated
it I'd like if you could maybe to help
our viewers understand what do people
need to know about how fundamentally
Israel intends to reshape Gaza um and
and how long is Israel prepared to take
doing
that I Know It uh it sounds a bit uh you
know distant in a sense but uh it will
uh we will do it as long as it takes
because after the uh October 7th
Massacre uh I think we are talking about
an Israel
transformed uh it is no longer uh
willing uh to accept a a terror
government in uh in Gaza uh being able
to slaughter our uh people our
communities uh to hijack and kidnap uh
hostages babies
toddlers uh women elderly Holocaust
Survivors all of this and to hold 240 of
them in Gaza as hostages uh uh we just a
half an hour ago we got the evening
Salvo into the Tel Aviv metropolitan
area by Rockets uh we've tried for many
years to deter and somewhat degrade but
uh on on the whole tolerate the concept
of Hamas uh Terror government in Gaza
thinking that it's the least of all
evils no it's not the least it's as evil
as Dash and Isis and maybe worse uh the
barbaric and sadist uh uh hyenas crimes
and atrocities are not something that
we're going to accept and under never
again we are willing to pay the price
and take as long as it take uh our time
and efforts and our uh soldiers uh
casualties and so on to remove this uh
threat to our border communities and to
Israel at large General you say that um
there was a time when you thought that
Hamas was maybe the lesser of evils um
and you say it's not it's just as bad as
as Isis are you pointing the finger at
your prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
is he guilty of allowing Hamas to Fester
as long as it apparently
has uh Israel faced a wicked choice
between uh going into Gaza as we now do
or trying to deter and some somehow uh
you know get to terms uh arve at some
terms with Hamas which live which allow
coexistence you know the mixture between
sufficient uh military action uh
economic relief measures just the weeks
before the hyenas attack uh we actually
approved more working permits for gums
in Israel I think
that that Saturday put all those uh
Concepts to sleep so we need to change
our Paradigm we need to recognize the
enemy that we are facing and we need to
act appropriately if we want to live
here as a democracy and our communities
must be safe and not to wake up with
with a pogram of jihadis uh at their
doorstep and and at their
the doors of their safe rooms General I
I know you're a military man but let me
just ask you about politics if you will
for a second you say we need to change
the Paradigm does that mean does Israel
need to change its government change its
prime minister change of
leadership um most of our defense and
intelligence leadership already claimed
responsibility uh which means that uh in
due time as the War uh subsides they
will probably step down what about the
Prime Minister yet to we have yet to
hear it from our prime minister and I'm
sure that in in a vibrant democracy like
ours the public will demand its its
answers and it will also pass its
verdict on on the leadership
responsibility and accountability of
that National level unprecedented
catastrophe today the Israeli defense
minister Galant said that there will be
no humanitarian pauses in this campaign
until all hostages have been released to
what extent do the hostages constrain
the military's scope of
action it's a very high priority uh goal
for us to free them to bring about their
uh release and to repatriate them back
back home there are full families there
Jews Arabs uh uh foreigners of of uh
various Nations and we want them we want
them back they're
naturally uh let's say a complex
situation in which the military pressure
uh helps to apply pressure to the
decision makers in Gaza but at the same
time there's also the operational risk
and Hamas likes very much to uh
uh ta us and say okay your era strikes
have just killed dozens of your own
hostages that's part of the
psychological warfare we are facing uh
this this is a part and parcel of being
a terrible uh Terror organization
governing a piece of land uh on our
border let me ask you for the the period
after the the fighting has ended um
after
as a military arm has has been destroyed
that's the stated goal here you know
there remains of course the battle for
the hearts and minds of Palestinians in
the territory as well as in the West
Bank to what extent can Israel defang
the the ideology underpinning Hamas
among
Palestinians Israel can defang this
snake from its poisonous uh teeth which
are the military side or the military
capabilities and the government
capabilities uh it's not for Israel to
compete on ideology this is intra
Palestinian issue uh in in many aspects
both part of uh of the Palestinian
theater suffer from a leadership crisis
both the PA in the West Bank and Hamas
in
Gaza suffer a crisis of legitimacy and
they each survive in its own way but if
we want to deradicalize or to bring a
genuine non- Jihadi ideology to the
Forefront with the Palestinian Society
this is for the Palestinians themselves
uh to work out probably with some help
of their uh Regional supporters and our
own Regional Partners both the peace
treaty country Jordan and Egypt and also
the abraam accord's countries and maybe
in the near future also Saudi Arabia
General before we run out of time let me
ask you I know you've you've seen the
pro Palestinian demonstrations that have
taken place in cities around the world
mainly in North America and here in
Europe there are calls for a ceasefire
in Gaza those calls are growing getting
louder Israel seems to be losing
sympathy on the global stage How
concerned are you about
this it's concerning but we need to uh
remind ourself of what at stake uh right
now it would be better uh for the public
in other countries friendly countries to
be better informed not to uh get uh
along this from The River To The Sea
Palestine will be free or should I say
Jewish free you know Jews free I don't
want to translate it into
German but we understand the
extermination uh aspect of what Hamas is
seeking to do it's saddening to see that
so-called liberals and
Progressive uh uh crowds are going after
this uh pipe dream which seems to be all
about The Liberation and freedom but
it's all about genocide and and ethnic
cleansing of Jews in Israel General
Assaf Oran we appreciate you taking the
time to talk with us tonight please come
back and talk with us again thank you
thank you for
inviting